- [Instructor] Okay so now that we've seen
how to submit a task via the ExecutorService,
let's take a look at a few other APIs.
The first one is invokeAny and invokeAll.
Now both of these methods help you submit
a collection of tasks unlike in the previous demo
where we submitted each task individually.
And when you call the invokeAll method,
it makes sure that it submits all the tasks,
executes them and returns their output.
And that output will be a list of futures this time
because it's a collection of tasks okay?
Now the invokeAny method is a little different.
It is going to make sure that it submits all your tasks,
however, it is going to return you
the output of the first successful
or the exceptional execution okay?
So what we're going to do,
we are going to go back to the project
and we're going to make a very small example,
where to understand how these methods work.
So let's make a class and let's say, LoggingProcessor.
Let this implement a callable.
Let's say this returns a Boolean.
So callable of a Boolean.
And it's a callable implementation
which means you have to implement a call method.
So let's get rid of the default implementation,
what we are going to do here is a very simple thing.
We will take the logger from java.util.logging
and get the logger instance.
So I am going to pick up that name
from line number 15 and get it
and on that a very simple log statement.
Sorry you also have to change the getName API on it.
Yeah and then you say, log, right?
And this is going to demand a logging level,
so we don't want a severe level,
we just want an information message to be logged.
And you can give in the message.
Let's say, logging something, that's all, that's all.
And after we log this we just simply return true okay.
And then we go to the Tests folder,
we create a class there and let's say
we are testing other APIs right?
So let's name it like that.
Let's grab the main method and let's
also take the ExecutorService.
So we now know how to take it right?
You just have to say Executors, the utility.
Which is this and say newFixedThreadPool maybe.
Let's say number of threads is two okay.
And as we said both of the invokeAny
and invokeAll will take a collection of tasks,
so we have to make a collection right?
So let's say List of callables
and our callable is actually going to take a Boolean
so let's specify that in the generic syntax.
And take callables and say new ArrayList,
let's clear the collection first.
One's done what are we going to do?
We are going to take the callables list
and add the LoggingProcessor task to it.
The instance of it okay?
LoggingProcessor which is this okay.
And it's a collection of tasks remember,
so let's copy this line 25,
and paste it as many times as you want.
Let's create at least six or seven implementations
for the list.
Implementation as in the callables list
has to definitely contain more than six or seven tasks.
That's what I'm trying to do.
And once this is done let's take the service object
and say .invokeAll.
And pass that callables argument to it.
So now this is going to return me a list of futures.
And the future is trying to have a value of Boolean right?
The return value is Boolean so we'll take that
and we'll give it a reference, okay.
So we said service invokeAll callables,
and we have taken the output in a list of futures.
If you want to see what the futures contain
then you'll have to iterate that,
so let's say for every future of Boolean,
take a variable in the futures list.
We're just going to put a sys out and say,
operation result, maybe and then call the get API.
Of course this method is going to throw
some checked exceptions so let's handle that using
the try catch block and for this,
it's going to throw another set of exceptions.
Let's add the catch clause.
Make sure that the variables that you want to access
throughout the method are outside the try block,
so let's take lines number 27 and 28,
cut them, and put it outside the try on line number 26.
Looks great.
So I'm just going to go ahead and execute this now.
Let's see what happens.
Yeah do you see what happened?
So when I said invokeAll,
how many ever number of tasks that I had created,
all of them got executed and I have the result
of all of them present on the console okay?
Unlike this, let's also see the invokeAny method.
So I'm going to go down, let this code be as-is,
and we're going to take the service object
and this time we're going to call invokeAny, that's the one.
Pass the callables and just print the result of this.
Just take it there sys out statement.
Why am I doing this?
Because when you talk about invokeAny
it's going to return you the result of just one operation.
So we really don't need to collect it in a future object
and then keep doing the rest of the stuff okay?
This is going to throw you the exception
so let's surround this and do a try catch.
And now let's run this program again.
Yes, do you see the difference?
That's the output that's come up
from the invokeAll implementation call okay?
Now unlike that if you see the invokeAny output,
it actually executed only one, two, three and four tasks,
and the moment it got the result
of the first successful operation,
the rest of the tasks in the collection were canceled.
That's how invokeAny behaves.
So invokeAny may be used for certain use cases
where let's say you want a guaranteed delivery system
to be implemented okay?
You want to send messages and you can post
the message as many number of times as you want,
but you want an assurance that it
definitely gets delivered at least once.
So it is kind of an item put into operation
where how many ever number of times
you send the request it's fine,
but you have to make sure that the request
definitely reached the destination right?
So instead of submitting this message,
instead of posting this message again
and again as an individual task,
we have this facility by invokeAny,
where you can have a collection of the same task,
and submit all of them in one shot,
and then let it come back with the result of the operation.
Could be successful or could be a failure, doesn't matter.
But that's what we want to know.
We want an assurance.
We want to see whether it got delivered or not
so that's one of the possible use cases
for the invokeAny method.
In the next video we'll take a look at the shutdown APIs.